p2p: Deprecate TTFB, RESP_TIMEOUT, introduce rate limiting recommenda… (#3767)
ethereum/consensus-specs: specs/phase0/p2p-interface.md

| `EPOCHS_PER_SUBNET_SUBSCRIPTION` | `2**8` (= 256) | Number of epochs on a subnet subscription (~27 hours) |
| `MIN_EPOCHS_FOR_BLOCK_REQUESTS` | `MIN_VALIDATOR_WITHDRAWABILITY_DELAY + CHURN_LIMIT_QUOTIENT // 2` (= 33024, ~5 months) | The minimum epoch range over which a node must serve blocks |
| `MAX_CHUNK_SIZE` | `10 * 2**20` (=10485760, 10 MiB) | The maximum allowed size of uncompressed req/resp chunked responses. |

> | `TTFB_TIMEOUT` | N/A | TTFB should remain disabled. |

Reviewer: Why not completely remove both of them rather than marking them as disabled.

Author: 08e020e98d5fbeef8d49e1f074e0564df3ea85b7

The requester MUST close the write side of the stream once it finishes writing the request message.
At this point, the stream will be half-closed.

> The requester MUST NOT make more than two concurrent requests with the same ID.

Reviewer: How about making the number two a config variable?

Reviewer 2: +1
Embedded in the spec it looks like a fundamental constant which is not subject to change (kind a number of children in a binary tree 😄 )

Author: I'm not really a fan of pre-emptive configurability (one could add this at any time when it's deemed useful) but there you go: [911019c](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/3767/commits/911019c41f35aee666b07a558a46bbc033951f20)

The requester MUST close the write side of the stream once it finishes writing the request message.
At this point, the stream will be half-closed.

The requester MUST NOT make more than `MAX_CONCURRENT_REQUESTS` concurrent requests with the same protocol ID.

> If a timeout happens on the requesting side, they SHOULD reset the stream.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest keeping the language consistent
`If a timeout occurs, the requester SHOULD reset the stream.`

Author: [a232b25](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/3767/commits/a232b25e7f1067b1301be37c9daab9b8685ee4dc)

The requester MUST close the write side of the stream once it finishes writing the request message.
At this point, the stream will be half-closed.

The requester MUST NOT make more than two concurrent requests with the same ID.

> If a timeout happens on the requesting side, they SHOULD reset the stream.

Reviewer: What kind of timeout can still happen? I think there is nothing left because you already removed `TTFB_TIMEOUT` and `RESP_TIMEOUT`. Or you left this line just in case we will want to re-enable this in the future?

Author: as a consumer, you can implement whatever timeouts you want (in fact, you probably should) - this merely says what you should do to inform the server that you're no longer interested

If steps (1), (2), or (3) fail due to invalid, malformed, or inconsistent data, the responder MUST respond in error.
Clients tracking peer reputation MAY record such failures, as well as unexpected events, e.g. early stream resets.

> The responder MAY rate-limit chunks by withholding each chunk until capacity is available. The responding side MUST NOT respond with an error or close the stream when rate limiting.

Reviewer 4: I'd always use `The responder` instead of `The responding side`.

Author: [a232b25](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/3767/commits/a232b25e7f1067b1301be37c9daab9b8685ee4dc)

*Note*: By convention, the `error_message` is a sequence of bytes that MAY be interpreted as a UTF-8 string (for debugging purposes).
Clients MUST treat as valid any byte sequences.

> The responder MAY penalise peers that concurrently open more than two streams for the same request type, for the protocol IDs defined in this specification.

Reviewer: I think this should use `MAX_CONCURRENT_REQUESTS`?

Author: oops, I had that in my local changes, thanks!

*Note*: By convention, the `error_message` is a sequence of bytes that MAY be interpreted as a UTF-8 string (for debugging purposes).
Clients MUST treat as valid any byte sequences.

> The responder MAY penalise peers that concurrently open more than two streams for the same request type, for the protocol ID:s defined in this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The responder MAY penalise peers that concurrently open more than two streams for the same request type, for the protocol IDs defined in this specification.
```

Req/Resp is used to avoid confusion with JSON-RPC and similar user-client interaction mechanisms.

#### What is a typical rate limiting strategy?

The serving side typically will want to rate limit requests to protect against spam and to manage resource consumption, while the requesting side will want to maximise performance based on its own resource allocation strategy. For the network, it is beneficial if available resources are used optimally.

Broadly, the requesting side does not know the capacity / limit of each server but can derive it from the rate of responses for the purpose of selecting the next peer for a request.

> Because the server withholds the response until capacity is available, a client can optimistically send requests without risking running into negative scoring situations or sub-optimal rate polling.

Reviewer: Is there a DoS vector here that the clients can fill out the server's buffer?

Author: the limit of open streams per protocol id replaces the previous mechanism (timeouts)
